README.md, before:

# `seed-vault`

Welcome to your new `seed-vault` project and to the Internet Computer development community. By default, creating a new project adds this README and some template files to your project directory. You can edit these template files to customize your project and to include your own code to speed up the development cycle.

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with `seed-vault`, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Motoko Programming Language Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/motoko)
- [Motoko Language Quick Reference](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/language-manual)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd seed-vault/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with

```bash
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### vetKD local setup

The backend now calls the management canister (`aaaaa-aa`) directly for vetKD using the `dfx_test_key` that ships with the local replica. No extra canister or WASM download is required. For IC deployments, switch the key name in `src/seed-vault-backend/main.mo` to `test_key_1` or `key_1` and attach the recommended cycles for vetKD calls.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor

Commit message:

Use existing Internet Identity instead of redeploying

README.md, after:

# `seed-vault`

Welcome to your new `seed-vault` project and to the Internet Computer development community. By default, creating a new project adds this README and some template files to your project directory. You can edit these template files to customize your project and to include your own code to speed up the development cycle.

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with `seed-vault`, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Motoko Programming Language Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/motoko)
- [Motoko Language Quick Reference](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/language-manual)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd seed-vault/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## Running the project locally

> **Canister reuse note**: `dfx` keeps canister IDs in `canister_ids.json`. As long as you keep this file and deploy with the same network flag, `dfx deploy` will update the existing backend/frontend canisters instead of creating new ones. Internet Identity is **not** part of this project's `dfx.json`; use the official mainnet II in production, and deploy a local II only when you need it for local testing (instructions below).

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --clean --background

# (Optional) deploy a local Internet Identity for dev auth
dfx deploy internet_identity --argument '(null)'
export CANISTER_ID_INTERNET_IDENTITY=$(dfx canister id internet_identity)

# Deploy only the project canisters (backend + frontend)
dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with

```bash
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### vetKD local setup

The backend calls the management canister (`aaaaa-aa`) directly for vetKD. No separate `vetkd_system_api` canister is needed. Use the local `dfx_test_key` when developing locally; for IC deployments switch the key name in `src/seed-vault-backend/main.mo` to `test_key_1` or `key_1` and attach the recommended cycles for vetKD calls.

### Internet Identity usage

- **IC / production**: The frontend already points to the official II at `https://identity.ic0.app` when `DFX_NETWORK=ic`. No II canister is deployed by this project on mainnet.
- **Local**: Deploy a local II manually (see commands above) and set `CANISTER_ID_INTERNET_IDENTITY` in your shell so the frontend can build the correct login URL. Because II is no longer listed in `dfx.json`, running `dfx deploy` will not create additional II canisters or consume cycles unexpectedly.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
